In this course's independent project, you will work with a database that stores information about venture capital funds and investments in startup companies.
This database is based on the Startup Investments dataset published on the popular data mining competition platform Kaggle.
Analyzing the investment market without preparation can be difficult.
Therefore, first become familiar with the important concepts that you will encounter while working with a database.
Venture capital funds are financial institutions that can afford to take high risks and invest in companies with an innovative business idea or developed new technology, that is, startups. The goal of venture funds is to receive significant profits in the future, which will be many times greater than the amount they spend on investing in the company.
If the startup rises in price, the venture fund may receive a stake in the company or a fixed percentage of its revenue.
To make the financing process less risky, it is divided into stages - rounds.
This or that round depends on what level of development the company has reached.
The first stages are the pre-seed and seed rounds.
A pre-seed round assumes that the company as such has not yet been created and is in the concept stage.
The next seed round marks the growth of the project: the company’s founders are developing a business model and attracting investors.
If a company needs a mentor or mentor, it attracts a business angel.
Business angels are investors who, in addition to financial support, offer expert assistance. This round is called an angel round.
When a startup becomes a company with a proven business model and begins to earn money on its own, there are more offers from investors.
This is round A, and others follow: B, C, D - at these stages the company is actively developing and preparing for an IPO.
Sometimes a venture round is allocated - financing that could come from a venture fund at any stage: initial or later.
You will find references to rounds in investment data, but a self-directed project does not require you to understand their specifics better than any investor.
The main thing is to understand how the data is structured.
You already know what an ER diagram is. It's best to start working with a new database by studying the scheme.


В самостоятельном проекте этого курса вы будете работать с базой данных, которая хранит информацию о венчурных фондах и инвестициях в компании-стартапы.
Эта база данных основана на датасете Startup Investments, опубликованном на популярной платформе для соревнований по исследованию данных Kaggle. 
Анализировать рынок инвестиций без подготовки может быть непросто.
Поэтому сначала познакомьтесь с важными понятиями, которые вам встретятся в работе с базой данных. 
Венчурные фонды — это финансовые организации, которые могут позволить себе высокий риск и инвестировать в компании с инновационной бизнес-идеей или разработанной новой технологией, то есть в стартапы. Цель венчурных фондов — в будущем получить значительную прибыль, которая в разы превысит размер их трат на инвестиции в компанию.
Если стартап подорожает, венчурный фонд может получить долю в компании или фиксированный процент от её выручки. 
Чтобы процесс финансирования стал менее рискованным, его делят на стадии — раунды.
Тот или иной раунд зависит от того, какого уровня развития достигла компания. 
Первые этапы — предпосевной и посевной раунды.
Предпосевной раунд предполагает, что компания как таковая ещё не создана и находится в стадии замысла.
Следующий — посевной — раунд знаменует рост проекта: создатели компании разрабатывают бизнес-модель и привлекают инвесторов. 
Если компании требуется ментор или наставник — она привлекает бизнес-ангела.
Бизнес-ангелы — инвесторы, которые помимо финансовой поддержки предлагают экспертную помощь. Такой раунд называют ангельским. 
Когда стартап становится компанией с проверенной бизнес-моделью и начинает зарабатывать самостоятельно, предложений инвесторов становится больше.
Это раунд A, а за ним следуют и другие: B, C, D — на этих этапах компания активно развивается и готовится к IPO. 
Иногда выделяют венчурный раунд — финансирование, которое могло поступить от венчурного фонда на любом этапе: начальном или более позднем. 
В данных об инвестициях вам встретятся упоминания раундов, но самостоятельный проект не предполагает, что вы должны разбираться в их специфике лучше любого инвестора.
Главное — понимать, как устроены данные. 
Вы уже знаете, что такое ER-диаграмма. Работу с новой базой данных лучше начать с изучения схемы.
